
**Antarctica**
I can't believe this is her debut work. Claire Keegan's descriptions of people are always so specific on the little habits that they have. "He was free with his money, kept it crumpled in his pockets like old receipts, didn’t smooth the notes out even when he was handing them over."

"Every time the happily married women went away she wondered how it would feel to sleep with another man". This first sentence really sets the tone for me because I was led to believe that this is the entire story. 

Truth to be told, up till the last 2 pages, I still had no idea why she named the short story "Antarctica". And that ending. Oh my. The only thing about Antarctica was when the protagonist was watching a documentary on Antarctica and penguins shuffling about in the sub-zero winds. This then brought about the conversation about Hell that the two have. The man's definition of Hell was that it "would be deserted; there’d be nobody there. Not even the Devil. I’ve always taken heart in the fact that Hell is populated; all my friends will be there." And when she realises at the end that there was something deliberate, silent and overpowering about the man, she still gives in. Then she gets handcuffed, tied to the bed naked, as the man leaves. The window stays open. It is winter and she slowly gets frostbite. And "She thought of Antarctica, the snow and ice and the bodies of dead explorers. Then she thought of Hell, and then eternity." I love how the story ends with such a twist. She was an explorer, she wanted to explore other people's bodies. And it bit her. And it was the cold that ends her too. 
