---
date: 2026-02-14
tags:
  - Personal Reflection
status: baby
---

Sick at home after coming back from Korea has sunk me into a depressive and melancholic mood. I saw a post on Instagram, something along the lines of 'I deleted my To-Do Lists, my habits tracker, and my alarms. I am done min-maxxing my life.' This reminded me of a conversation FAP had on 12 Feb during our annual CNY gathering. Justin said he feels not mature enough for marriage. He wants to 'monkey' and do stuff like go to US to work, earn big bucks, get 2 properties in 3 years instead of 10 years. And when Clem asked him why, he said that's more fun. He likes the fun of turning 20k into 200k, that dopamine hit of putting that money into options and see it 10x. Fun? 

I must study Politics and War that my sons may have liberty to study (Painting and Poetry) Mathematics and Philosophy. My sons ought to study Mathematics and Philosophy, Geography, Natural History, Naval Architecture, navigation, Commerce and Agriculture, in order to give their Children a right to study Painting, Poetry, Music, Architecture, Statuary, Tapestry and Porcelaine. - John Adam. I really love this quote. I guess what I have is under the umbrella of Mathematics, and honestly, this is how I felt for my brother after Dad died. I ought to study Mathematics, or in my opinion, something that could pay the bills, so that he can study something arts related. I didn't want him to face the burden of having to choose something that he did not like. Of course, now I enjoy doing the data work, and I guess I got lucky. And that's the point. I got lucky.

My idea of fun? I want to go to museums, experience the art of the greats (be it books or paintings), experience different worlds, experience different languages, experience games. And that is enough. Chasing money, chasing fame, chasing power. Is it wrong to not put my entire effort into trying to earn more money? Everyone leads a different life, with different cards. I really really really love my life now. I meet friends weekly, I go on trips with friends to experience new things, I have money to buy the things that I like, I have time to appreciate the arts, learn a new language, write, reflect, and play games. What a beautiful life. I'm currently at the position where I desperately wanted to be 2+ years ago. I wanted to make at least 6k after CPF. What's next? 20 handles every day. 