---
date: 2025-12-01
tags:
status: baby
---

Having read Amy Key's Arrangement in Blue, I can't help but feel seen as a person. The book has essays on singleness, grief and love. I took it up on a whim when I was downloading books from Oceanofpdf after going through my To Be Read (TBR) list. 

Singleness. It has only been 2 months since I broke up with somebody because somewhere deep in my gut, I knew that this was not what I wanted. And prior to this short relationship, I was actively single for 5 years. Why? I wanted to find myself, as cliche as it sounds, and to find my soul. As opposed to forty-four year old Amy Kelly, I am twenty-eight this year. But sometimes as I go around introducing myself, it seems wrong or lacking to introduce myself as a single man. A single man in his late twenties. I'm not worried about not being in a relationship, I'm more worried that I am closing myself off from one. It's not that simple to go out and meet people anymore, mainly because I wouldn't just walk up to somebody and introduce myself. The hobbies that I have chosen are mostly in isolation, going to museums, watching plays, reading, gaming and writing.

Solo travels. To be honest, up till now, I don't think I have solo travelled very well. I haven't had successful days everyday, but I am getting better. I am going out even on solo travels, and not just hiding in my Airbnb or hotel. My default during my travels are "I don't want to take up space" when I should be. Heck, I literally paid to be here to have a good time. Taking on another solo travel in May in Tokyo.

Amy Kelly said that it took her years to finally reach a point where she does not need someone’s romantic love to be validated. I feel like I have done that too? What I feel instead is the fear of not being able to feel romantic love. I feel like I have experienced so much platonic love that romantic love does not come close? What am I expecting? Butterflies? Are lovers not friends? Should a lover not be a best friend as well? I do want romantic love, but I'm not sure what that looks like at the moment. Perhaps I have been too close off to any romantic love. Yet, I don't want scraps of romantic love. Which I have no idea what that means too. Romantic love. Somebody that stays by you regardless. A partner working towards shared goals. A person to bounce ideas off one another. A person who inspires each other to live. 

Soul. I did not feel like my soul met hers, the previous one. Because I know how my soul feels when I have it experience vulnerability, illness, art and music. There's a bubbling of something deep within. There's a kind of yearning and happiness, even when meeting friends. Am I chasing a feeling? People say love is not just a feeling, it is an action. Does getting a crush on some other people mean that I do not love the other person? Why am I seeking perfection outside? Art in all its forms can feel like the purest expression of one soul to another. A means of transcending the boundaried self. And that is what I am chasing. That feeling after a play, a game, some insane voice acting, and now even paintings. 

Self-care is as much about what you don’t do as it is what you do. These are loving actions. Habits that are a daily commitment to myself that can reliably bring about pleasure, or calm, or comfort without the need for another. It takes a person who is willing to make a fuss of their own life to have their occasions noted. Or that noting becomes a private act that no one else can acknowledge, because to celebrate oneself is shameful, greedy, undignified behaviour. In thinking about this I’ve realised that there is something to the affirmation-based self-love category that’s worthy of more of my attention. Because when we affirm ourselves, we are borrowing the voice of a friend to help us believe in our worth. Everything Amy said here is so true. That is why in 2026, I am tracking my time, at least my goals, to see how I am spending my time. And I genuinely love being busy. I see it now. Busy in a sense that I don't need to be productive, but busy consuming and creating. Like what I'm doing here, some writing. And I do, I celebrate myself. I should track writing as a goal too huh.