Tags: [[Visual Novel]]

After 7.34 hours, I finally finished my first playthrough of Dispatch. Dispatch is a mix between the old Telltale series narrative storytelling and a strategy game. I picked this up because I was craving a visual novel-like game, and this felt like a breath of fresh air. Dispatch is a superhero workplace comedy adventure, with 8 episodes spread out across 4 weeks. I (surprisingly) enjoyed the waiting time between each release, as it felt like I had something to look forward to every week. The protagonist, Robert Robertson (Mecha Man), begins a new life after his suit gets destroyed. "Big man in a suit of armour. Take that off, what are you?" Robert does not have an immediate clap back to this and his civilian journey begins as a superhero dispatcher. The plot follows him managing the Z-Team, a team of reformed villains at the Superhero Dispatch Network (SDN). 

Robert Robertson has a strong moral compass, always trying to do right things at any point in time. Coincidentally, I was at a management workshop when I started playing this and there were quite a lot of similar points. As a Dispatcher of the SDN, Robert needs to know his team's strengths and weaknesses. But even before that, he needs to gain the respect of his team members. Some of his team members may or may not have been villains that he had put away during his active days. Being a washed up hero behind a desk, definitely does not help his case. 

In Episode 2, Robert faces his first obstacle: firing someone from the team. The Z-Team is a bunch of misfits and an example needs to be made. There was not much time given to decide who I would fire but I chose Coupe because she did not seem that strong. Turns out, almost 70% of players also fired her. Well, this came back to bite me at the end because she sides with the big bad and actually quite difficult to take her out. I think the roughest part of the game was Episode 3 and 4 for me. I think I was the bottom 30 percentile of the player base based on my success rate. It was then when I started to pay more attention of the Z-Team members' strengths and weaknesses. Levelling them up, pairing them up for better synergies, and balancing who should go for more training. The next obstacle came when I had to choose between Phenomaman and WaterBoy. I ultimately went with WaterBoy because I believe attitude is everything. Sure, WaterBoy is weak but with enough training, I can raise him to be stronger. On the other hand, Phenomaman gets depressed after every call so his recovery rate is insanely long. 

Moving on with the story, as Robert works with his team, he gets a chance to join them for drinks after work hours. This also around the time when the games gives you a decision to choose between Blonde Blazer and Invisigal, more on that in a bit. Drinks after work hours at a villain bar, what could go wrong? A brawl fight ensues and the game gives a very interesting prompt. A team needs trust, at least that's what I believe in. As the team has a heart to heart talk with each other, I had the choice to reveal which superhero I was. And, I decided not to reveal it. Was it a lie? Hmmm. The current Robert Robertson is a superhero dispatcher, who he was before, and what he did, does not matter. Same for the villains. They are in a program, to reform them into heroes. Who they were back then does not matter. What matters is now. 

The romance narrative and the most difficult decision of them all: Blonde Blazer or Invisigal. I went with Invisigal because she's imperfect, it's for the plot. Blonde Blazer is an all-rounded hero, no flaws, and I'm not sure if there would be more character development. Invisigal is a villain, and we later find out that she is a huge part of the plot as well. Given the choice, going for Malevola would be fun too. Having a Magik equivalent character in the universe would make a great story. Following the Invisigal romance line gave rise to harder decisions and more complex dialogues. Fast forward to the end, so that I don't spoil much, I don't think I got a great ending. Well, Invisigal turned towards villainy, and I'm one of 36% of players who got that ending. Overall, I really enjoyed my time and will come back to it for other playthroughs.